one of the key factors to ranking high
on google is to get more websites to
link to you but how do you get these
links and how do you get them
efficiently and quickly
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm going to teach you how to build
backlinks fast
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
now i want you to go to the
neilpatel.com home page and when you go
there scroll all the way to the bottom
and click on tools
when you click on tools you'll see an
option for
backlinks checker
and i want you to click on that
and then i want you to type in your
domain my domain is neilpatel.com
so i'm going to type that in and then
click search
now keep in mind if your website hasn't
been up that long you may have little to
no backlinks and no data here
and i'll show you what to do in a bit if
that's the case but first off let's go
through the process assuming you do have
people linking to you
you'll see an overview of your domain
authority your backlinks referring
domains organic traffic links over time
new and lost links anchor text
distribution right here that's what
words people are using in the links and
the domain authority of the sites
linking to you are they high low how
many of them there are
and of course a list a laundry list
technically of all the pages linking to
you and you can just keep going and
going and there'll be tons of links as
here you can see here there's over 3.3
million
but what's beautiful about this is this
new and lost backlink chart
it'll show you all the people on a daily
basis that are linking to you and that
are not linking to you anymore lost
referral domains are
anyone who is not linking to you any
more
new referral domains are anyone who is
linking to you now but they weren't
leaking to you before
now the green ones are good you don't
have to worry about that for your
website
the red ones though they're bad why'd
someone remove the link so i'm going to
click here there's 79 lost
and i'm going to then click on lost and
what you'll find out is
some of these will be good like good
sites that you've lost a link from and
some of them will be spammy like junk
sites so as you can see here
you know
this one is a local list i should
probably reach out to them
new dot top seems a little spammy
andy core well the anchor text the text
that they used was plant today
website's not really about plants so i
should probably
you know ignore that one but this coco
lies that one used to link to ubersudus
which is this tool but they removed it i
should probably reach out to them and
update them on how ubersudus has changed
i've added all this features
and then i can keep going right this one
looks a little spammy
but you know maybe it is a good site i
should just check it out manually
uh and it linked to uber says but not
anymore
here's another one brazilian one they
linked to ubersus but not anymore
uh startup website in india how
affiliate marketing works they remove
that one
and i should reach out to literally all
these websites so you want to click the
arrow right here to go to each of these
sites
you know and like let's say this one
they removed the link to uber suggest
and this one is online jobs working from
home
and they talked about affiliate
marketing and they removed my link
here's another one
uh this was their main blog they linked
to ubersuggest they removed it here's
another one portuguese website here's an
article on seo
and they removed the link to ubersuggest
and i should
probably reach out to them and try to
get them to add a link again back to
uber's suggests
and what you'll want to do is just send
out an email to them
and if you're like hey neil i don't know
how to find their email we'll just go to
hunter
dot io
and hunter dot io you can put in the url
for any site
and they'll start telling you the email
address so i'm going to end up putting
the url for
this website here
and as you can see they have some email
addresses from this website and if you
sign up for free you can get 25 free
searches and you'll want to email them
so maybe this name here is bryce so
let's say it's bryce at
cocolyze.com and say hey bryce i noticed
that you removed a link to ubersudus
from this url and the url will be from
their main blog page
i just had a question on why and no you
know if you don't want to link two
persons that's fine but you used to
here's some cool new features we release
with uberset that'll help your users but
a lot of you could add the link back or
if you're not interested and you don't
want to link tubercss anymore cursed to
learn why
um cheers neil and that's it
and either some people will ignore your
email or
they'll
tell you why they don't want to link to
you and maybe you can take that feedback
and fix it and then get them to add a
link back
or
they'll add a link back
and just doing this process will help
you get a lot of links
the other thing i want you to do let's
go back to ubersuggest and let's go back
to the backlinks here because we're on
the new and lost link
i can do this also with my competition
so remember i said if you don't really
have any new or lost links because you
haven't really built any you would want
to put in your competitor names so let's
say i put in moz moz
and i can see how many links they have
as well as new and lost on a daily basis
now i can do this same thing with moz
and i'm more so instead of want to
looking at their loss links i want to
more so look at their new links right
the new link shows you how many new
people are linking to them on a regular
basis
the loss links will show them how many
people or how many links they've lost so
this is all the new links this is the
loss links
and the loss shows them how many people
remove their link
the new shows how many new people are
linking
and here's the thing
i don't want to focus on the loss
because anyone who stopped linking to
moz
it's going to be tough to be like hey i
know you see stop linking to my
competition so start linking to me that
pitch doesn't really work well
but the new ones i could be like all
right this site this american bite
this article let's see what it is
hummingbird bbq tips probably not
related
because moz more so talks about
hummingbird the algorithm which is a
google algorithm update so that's
irrelevant link
um
let's look for something that's more
relevant
i'm scrolling down
business analytics 3.0 moss
other blogs business analytics 3.8 name
the top 50 big marketing blogs best list
of other analytics blogs
so i would actually go here and see if
they included my blog so i'm typing in
neil patel in the
find search box in my browser and as you
can see here they don't link to it
so then what i would do is again use
hunter dot io find this person's email
address for any of these sites and email
them so i would email
practical analytics and say hey
practical analytics i know you have this
page and i'll link to that url that
breaks on all of the analytics blogs
you mentioned moz and a few others but i
noticed you didn't include neilpatel.com
here's some analytics posts on
neilpatel.com that'll probably interest
people feel free to add the site if you
think it'll benefit your readers it's
that simple and that link
to moz is a recent one
right in which they recently added moz
from this practical analytics page
because this is new and lost links based
on the most recent date
and then when you take this because they
recently linked to them that means
they've updated their site and they're
recently willing to or they'll be
willing to link to you as well because
they're constantly updating their site
if you look at really old data that's
like two years old it's irrelevant
because if someone added links two years
ago it doesn't mean they're going to add
links today
and i would just go through the list and
do this for all my competitors email
them on how i'm a good fit and send a
customized email and over time if you do
this on a weekly basis you don't have to
do this daily but just do weekly you'll
start building a lot of links it really
is that simple and if you have more time
do this daily for 30 minutes a day or
weekly for hour and overtime you'll
notice that you'll build a lot of links
and your rankings will increase
now if you have any questions on how you
can build more links or how you can use
this method leave a comment below and
i'll answer it if you enjoyed this video
like it share it tell the people about
it if you want my team to just build
links for you an organic nice friendly
google white hat way like i just
mentioned here check out my ad agency np
digital
and thank you very much for your time